What's new in 2.0.0 (16 May 2025)
---------------------------------

These are the changes in icepyx 2.0.0 See :ref:`release` for a full changelog
including other versions of icepyx.

.. warning::
    This is major release and contains a few breaking changes. Full details will be
    described in the documentation.

    NSIDC (the NASA DAAC that hosts ICESat-2 data) is transitioning their
    API endpoint from the on-premises EGI system to the cloud-based Harmony services.
    icepyx has been updated to access these new services; Certain capabilities are temporarily going away

    * Data reformatting: users will only get HDF5 files back from the new API.
    * Variable subsetting: The new cloud subsetter doesn't support variable subsetting (yet), therefore all variables will be included
      in subsetted orders.

    Find more details on all these changes, including their progress, on GitHub issues and discussions.


New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adding support for NASA's Harmony subsetter (#657)
  - Data orders can be previewed, stopped and resumed using the library or the Harmony UI.
  - The Harmony trajectory subsetter automatically pauses orders with more than 300 granules, we need to manually resume them or pass the `skip_preview=True` parameter to the order.
  - Reference: https://harmony.earthdata.nasa.gov/

- Order class: when an order is placed, icepyx will return an order class instance that will help us keep track of the order progress, pause and eventually download the data.
  We can still use the Query class to download, however using the order instance is probably simpler and more intuitive. (#657)

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- None


Deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- EGI API is deprecated (Closes #530)

  - PR #657 implements NASA Harmony support to replace the on-premises EGI service.
  - data reformatting and variable subsetting are not supported in the new API.
    - Users will only get HDF5 files back from the new API.
  - `order_vars()` is deprecated in favor of `variables()`.
  - `fmt_for_EGI()` is deprecated.
  - Any EGI specific code is deprecated and has been removed in this release.

- Drop support for Python 3.9 and 3.10 (#655)
- Removed existing deprecations for v1.x (#640)


Maintenance
^^^^^^^^^^^

- Separate CI unit tests and integration tests with their own conftest #657
- Fixed some integration tests that were failing due to the new Harmony API #657
- Updated ruff action #654


Documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Updated notebooks to reflect the new Harmony API usage (#657)
  - The updated notebooks have full and subset orders, and show how to use the new Harmony API.
  - The top level API works the same, users only need to update to v2.0.0 and the code should work (unless using variable subsetting or reformatting)
  - Notebooks are in the `examples` folder, and are also available in the documentation.

Other
^^^^^

- None


Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. contributors:: v1.3.0..v2.0.0|HEAD
